---
date: 2021-09-11
title: Endings
layout: post
description: About the melancholy nature of endings.
tags: sevzi ckape-se-badri
---

<small>Beware: the following text contains spoilers for the endings of *Worm* by Wildbow and *The Office* (American version).</small>

## i

{% epigraph "If there are two and a half words you don't want to hear from a person who can see the future, those words are 'I'm sorry'." "Worm, Imago 21.2 (2013)" "Wildbow" %}

I want to have a happy ending.

{% newthought "A long time ago" %} I graduated from grade school. I remember being called to stand along with several of my friends because I received good scores on my final examinations. I remember that I didn't bring my heavy book bag that day. Only a messenger bag. I didn't rush home that day. I walked slowly. There were few people that I could see while I was leaving. It was because only the graduating class had to attend the graduation. The rest of the school had already left. 

It was just past noon, and the sun was at its zenith. I remember looking at the facade of the main school building while walking on the sidewalk. I have looked at it many times before. I remember a deep melancholy come over me. In that moment, I thought, "I am never going to step foot in here ever again". But it was not a command, but rather, an observation. A realization. It turned out to be true, in the end. I have up till now never stepped foot in that school since.

## ii

{% epigraph "I didn't watch the whole documentary. After a few episodes, it was too painful. I kept wanting to scream at Pam. It took me so long to do so many important things. It's just hard to accept that I spent so many years being less happy than I could have been." "Pamela Beesly-Halpert" "The Office S9E25 (2013)"%}

I recently finished *Worm* by Wildbow and *The Office* (the American version). Have you ever felt an empty feeling in your chest when you finish reading a book, or watching a show? It hit especially hard for me this time, since both of these pieces of media are extremely long. *Worm* is more than 1.7 million words long, and *The Office* has 201 episodes each about 30 minutes long. I consumed{% sidenote 'zgana' "It seems a little weird to say \"consumed\" here. Lojban has `zgana` (gloss: behold), which is much more elegant."%} them over the span of months. It seems rather pathetic to have my emotions be so affected by things like this, but I shamelessly accept it. That's par for the course, of course -- *Worm* set itself up as dark fiction from the very start, and *The Office* is a situational comedy.

## iii
{% epigraph "Alone, the shields were too weak.  Together, the shields were still too weak." "Worm, Venom 29.9 (2013)" "Wildbow" %}

I disliked *Worm*'s ending. This sentence is your last warning for spoilers. I disliked it both for "objective" reasons and petty reasons. The ending felt a little too sudden. It didn't feel like it resolved anything. Also, it was confusing. What was the actual ending supposed to be? I wasn't very satisfied with the endings. But that isn't what I wanted to talk about here. *Worm* ends with Contessa shooting Taylor twice, killing her. Yes, the girl that just defeated the strongest entity in the universe, had so ignominiously died. A big overarching theme of *Worm* is that "good things don't always happen to good people", and that karma doesn't always come. But still. I'm still kinda worked up about it. Yes, I have become horribly attached to the Undersiders and Taylor especially. Don't @ me.

## iv
{% epigraph "Arise, my love, my fair one, and come away. For lo, the winter is passed. The rain is over and gone. The time of singing has come and the voice of the turtledove is heard in our land. Let me see your face. Let me hear your voice, for your voice is sweet and your face is comely." "Kevin quoting Song of Solomon 2:10-13. " "The Office S9E21 (2013)" %}

The ending of *The Office* is much happier. Much, much happier{% sidenote 'happier' "I have heard that the original British version is decidedly less happy. Haven't watched it, though." %}. Basically everyone ends up happy. Especially Dwight, Jim and Pam. They're the ones I was most sympathetic to (and parasocially bonded to). Jim and Pam remain happily married; Jim gets a better job; Dwight is reunited with his son and Angela; Erin reunites with her birth parents...the list goes on and on. It truly is a joyous ending.

## v

I want to have a happy ending. I want to be happy, to be satisfied, to be relieved, to look back and not regret. I am young, still. I use the mind's eye to look into the future, and it is filled with darkness and fog. I don't know where I'll end up.

I read Marcus Aurelius's *Meditations* a long time ago, and I can already hear him chastising me{% sidenote 'chastise' "Marcus gives excellent advice, but it is very difficult advice. I'm not as strong as you, you know. I'm not as disciplined as you, Mark. You expect too much of me."%}. That I should make peace with death, and be well content with it. I am afraid of death, yes, but that's not quite what I'm truly afraid of. I'm afraid of looking back, asking myself whether it has all been worth it, whether it has borne fruit, and hearing, "No." I don't want that. I am deeply afraid of that. No, no, no. Please, no.

But how? How do I make sure that it does not come to that? It's my policy not to use quotes or invoke someone whose work I have not read, but I once heard a quote: "> "Just as a well-filled day brings blessed sleep, so a well-employed life brings a blessed death." by Leonardo da Vinci{% sidenote 'obey' "I am obeying my policy by not using my special epigraph formatting. Hahah!"%}. Okay, sure Leo, but what is a "well-employed life" supposed to be, hm? {% sidenote 'exposit' "He might actually have exposited on what exactly that means in whatever work this is from. Whatever." %} I suppose what it means is that I have to do meaningful things in my life. Purposeful things. But, again, that doesn't really tell me how to identify which things are meaningful and which aren't.

I don't think I have much else to say. It's just so hard, you know? I don't know what I'll do. I will merely hope that it will not come to that.
  
