---
date: 2021-08-27
title: endings
layout: post
description: About the melancholy nature of endings.
tags: sevzi ckape-se-badri
---

<small>Beware: the following text contains spoilers for the endings of *Worm* by Wildbow and *The Office* (American version).</small>

## i

{% epigraph "If there are two and a half words you don't want to hear from a person who can see the future, those words are 'I'm sorry'." "Worm, Imago 21.2 (2013)" "Wildbow" %}

I want to have a happy ending.

{% newthought "A long time ago" %}, I graduated from grade school. I remember being called to stand along with several of my friends because I received good scores on my final examinations. I remember that I didn't bring my heavy book bag that day. Only a messenger bag. I didn't rush home that day. I walked slowly. There were few people that I could see while I was leaving. It was because only the graduating class had to attend the graduation. The rest of the school had already left. 

It was just past noon, and the sun was at its zenith. I remember looking at the facade of the main school building while walking on the sidewalk. I have looked at it many times before. I remember a deep melancholy come over me. In that moment, I thought, "I am never going to step foot in here ever again". But it was not a command, but rather, an observation. A realization. It turned out to be true, in the end. I have up till now never stepped foot in that school since.

## ii

{% epigraph "<smallcaps>Pam:</smallcaps> I didn't watch the whole documentary. After a few episodes, it was too painful. I kept wanting to scream at Pam. It took me so long to do so many important things. It's just hard to accept that I spent so many years being less happy than I could have been." "The Office" "The Office"%}

I recently finished *Worm* by Wildbow and *The Office* (the American version). Have you ever felt an empty feeling in your chest when you finish reading a book, or watching a show? It hit especially hard for me this time, since both of these pieces of media are extremely long. *Worm* is more than 1.7 million words long, and *The Office* has 201 episodes each about 30 minutes long. I consumed{% sidenote 'zgana' "It seems a little weird to say \"consumed\" here. Lojban has `zgana` (gloss: behold), which is much more elegant."%} them over the span of months. 

It's like a long book that you never want to end. And you're fine with that because you just never, ever wanna leave it.  
-Pamela Beesly Halpert

I finished *Worm (2013)* and *The Office (2xxx, American version)* recently.

Pam: I didn't watch the whole documentary. After a few episodes, it was too painful. I kept wanting to scream at Pam. It took me so long to do so many important things. It's just hard to accept that I spent so many years being less happy than I could have been. Jim was 5 feet from my desk and it took me four years to get to him. It'd be great if people saw this documentary and learned from my mistakes. Not that I'm a tragic person. I'm really happy now. But...it would just...just make my heart soar if someone out there saw this and she said to herself "be strong, trust yourself, love yourself. Conquer your fears. Just go after what you want and act fast, because life just isn't that long.

I opened my mouth to reply, and I couldn’t.

Didn’t deserve to, either way.

“_It’s okay.  I got the answer, myself._”

I looked away.

I looked _up_.  My eyes were wet.

So many stars.  The universe so vast.

_We’re s- so very small, in the end._

"Finally, everyone was working together."

If there are two and a half words you don't want to hear from a person who can see the future, those words are 'I'm sorry'.

> “I’m just… I know what it’s like, to be on a single track, to feel compelled to keep going forward. It isn’t easy, to disappoint the people you care about, but sometimes it comes down to doing that… or doing what they want and being unhappy.”

"The dog is _fucked_. Thoroughly. All available holes."

> He found a knife, returned to the cage, and then grabbed the bird in one fist. It didn’t struggle or resist as he held it down, severing its head with one clean stroke.
> 
> It’s just a dumb fucking bird, but it doesn’t deserve to suffer.
> 
> Maybe he could hope for the same.

Migration 17.3

“Not a promise, not an oath, or a malediction or a curse,” I said, sounding calm, probably inaudible in the midst of Tagg’s screaming. “Inevitable. Wasn’t that how she put it? I told them. Warned them.”

“According to studies, clinically depressed individuals have a more accurate grasp of reality than the average person.  We tell ourselves lies and layer falsehoods and self-assurances over one another in order to cope with a world colored by pain and suffering.  We put blinders on.  If we lose that illusion, we crumble into depression or we crack and go mad.  So perhaps I’m crazy, but only because I see things too clearly?”

"Arise, my love, my fair one, and come away. For lo, the winter is passed. The rain is over and gone. The time of singing has come and the voice of the turtledove is heard in our land. Let me see your face. Let me hear your voice, for your voice is sweet and your face is comely." 
  
